# Confidence-Interval-and-CLT---Walmart-

# About Walmart

Walmart is an American multinational retail corporation that operates a chain of supercenters, discount departmental stores, and grocery stores from the United States. Walmart has more than 100 million customers worldwide.


# Business Problem

The Management team at Walmart Inc. wants to analyze the customer purchase behavior (specifically, purchase amount) against the customer’s gender and the various other factors to help the business make better decisions. They want to understand if the spending habits differ between male and female customers: Do women spend more on Black Friday than men? (Assume 50 million customers are male and 50 million are female).


# Dataset

The company collected the transactional data of customers who purchased products from the Walmart Stores during Black Friday. The dataset has the following features:
Dataset link: Walmart_data.csv

User_ID:	User ID
Product_ID:	Product ID
Gender:	Sex of User
Age:	Age in bins
Occupation:	Occupation(Masked)
City_Category:	Category of the City (A,B,C)
StayInCurrentCityYears:	Number of years stay in current city
Marital_Status:	Marital Status
ProductCategory:	Product Category (Masked)
Purchase:	Purchase Amount


# Insights
The dataset contains 550068 rows , 10 columns , basically the dataset contains 550068 transaction data . There are no missing values in the data . The mean and median of product category are nearly same , Mean and median of Occupation have a difference of nearly 1 value , Mean and median of purchase have a difference of nearly 1000 . Occupation , product category and purchase have a max higher than 75 percentile which means they have outliers . Total number of transactions done by Males is 414259 and by females is 135809. Total number of transactions done by Singles is 324731 and by Partnered people is 225337. There are a total of 20 product categories among them categories 5,1,8 have Top 3 number of transactions . There are a total of 3631 product_id’s and 5891 user_id’s. Total 3 City_Categories A has 147720 , B has 231173 , C has 171175 transactions with Category B as top. Total number of Male Unique User_ID’s are 4225 and the total number of Fe-male Unique User_ID’s are 1666, where it shows male customers are more than female . Product category 1 has the highest purchase with 37.48% form over all purchase. The highest number of customers between the ages 26-35 and lowest are between 0-17. Most customers have stayed in the city for one year. Single people with age between 26-35 have contributed the highest number of transactions, even partnered people between 26-35 have the highest number of transactions among partnered but not as high as single people. Males have a domination over the number of transactions We can observe that occupation less than 7 have more transactions and they are mostly from city category B. We can clearly see more than 40% of the transactions are from city category B. 26% of transactions are from City category A, 42% from City category B, 31% from City category C. In box plot we can observe that product category and Purchases More number of transactions are of purchase between 5000 to 10000 and product category 13&1 have purchase higher than 10000 There is not much fluctuation in median’s of male and female with regard to purchasing in marital status and Stay_In_Current_City_Years but Median of city category “C” is slightly higher in both males and females also males with age group 51-55 , females with age group 55+ have slightly higher Median. After sample mean testing we can see the distribution of male and female means is normal distribution The means of purchase_new of male and female datasets are almost equal to population means of male and female Average spend per male customer is 924452.24 Average spend per female customer is 711307.70 We can see that in 95% of population the average amount spent by male customers will lye in between: (894742.07 to 954151.91) We can see that in 95% of the population the average amount spent by female customers will lye in between: (672607.12 to 750086.92). Here we can see that confidence intervals of average male and female spending are not overlapping . After sample mean testing we can see the distribution of single and partnered means is normal distribution The means of purchase_new of single and partnered datasets are almost equal to population means of single and partnered Average spend per single customer is 879956.43 Average spend per partnered customer is 842390.29 The Average spends of single and partnered also seems nearly equal with very minute difference We can see that in 95% of population the average amount spent by single customers will lye in between: (847968.09 to 911588.86) We can see that in 95% of the population the average amount spent by partnered customers will lye in between: (805807.57 to 879471.03). Here we can see that confidence intervals of average single and partnered spending are overlapping . Most of the Users are between 18-50 years of age. We can see that in 95% of the population the average amount spent by Age group 26-35 customers will lye in between: (944236.98 to 1033425.16). We can see that in 95% of the population the average amount spent by Age group 36-45 customers will lye in between: (822400.20 to 934958.68). We can see that in 95% of the population the average amount spent by Age group 18-25 customers will lye in between: (801152.12 to 907553.45). We can see that in 95% of the population the average amount spent by Age group 46-50 customers will lye in between: (712701.90 to 870658.05). We can see that in 95% of the population the average amount spent by Age group 51-55 customers will lye in between: (691268.46 to 832692.43). We can see that in 95% of the population the average amount spent by Age group 55+ customers will lye in between: (476083.82 to 601401.69). We can see that in 95% of the population the average amount spent by Age group 0-17 customers will lye in between: (527250.57 to 709387.02). We can see that confidence interval of age groups 18-25 & 36-45 overlapping , age group 26-35 have confidence interval slightly higher than 18-25 & 36-45 .

# Recommendations
We can clearly see that Males and Singles have dominated in the aspect of number of transactions , so adding items that match with usage of each other by placing that combination products at immediate shelfs can increase the sales from Males and singles . For females and Partnered customers , to increase the number of transactions , which also means the number of times they visit to walmart to shop , installing babycare facility for customers , play zone for kids and also foods like snacks and beverage will help to attract customers to spend time in walmart as usually taking care of kids during shopping always seem a burden , also with food available it becomes a chill spot after shopping. People who are young and middle aged seem to do more shopping , to improve the transactions in remaining age category like old age people 45 and above years , special billing lines could help as there would be less waiting time , less standing in line , hence old age employee friendly. Product categories that have low transactions like 14,17,9 can be considered as less used items , which can be stocked in low quantities and Product categories that have high transactions like 5,1,3 have high usage , hence have to be restocked frequently . City category A has very low transactions which can be improved by creating Seasonal offers and digital marketing , alsohome delivery on a minimum spend. Occupation more than 7 have very low number of transaction frequency , where we can assume as the occupation rate increases free time may decrease to do live shopping, hence adapting a local e-commerce app or website , where the customers add items to their cart and pay the bill with additional delivery fee and the items can be delivered to home with in 1 day. Products with cost range of 500 to 10000 have more transactions which can be considered as frequently used items , these items are to be restocked frequently and creating a combo with one item that has high transactions and other has low transactions may help in boosting the lower transaction item sales. The range of purchase in city category “C” is higher compared to other categories, decreasing the offers in this area and investing it in other two city categories in the form of discounts would make a change in income generated without any new investment. In both males and females old aged people have higher median and range in purchase , which means even though there are less transactions , these people tend to buy high cost products , so to increase these further more , implementing Ideas like rearranging selected products by targeting these customers with a separate billing line can help a lot.
